Jenkins Interview Questions  Visualpath
on October 17, 2018
Jenkins Interview Questions
1.What is Continous Integration
2.What is Jenkins
3.What is the diference between Jenkins, Maven & Ant
4.SCM that jenkins supports
5.What is relation between Hudson & Jenkins
6.What are advantages of using Jenkins
7.What are plugins in Jenkins
8.Mention all the plugins you used in jenkins and its purpose
9.How do you clone git reo in jenkins job
10.How do you build java code with Maven in Jenkins
11.What is static code analysis and what plugin you used for it
12.What is downstream and upstream job
13.What is Nexus repository manager
14.How can you version and upload artifacts in Nexus repo
15.How can you deploy artifact to tomcat server from Jenkins job
16.What is workspace in jenkins
17.Copying artifacts to another job
18.What is build pipeline
19.How to create users in Jenkins
20.How to addremovedisconnect nodes in Jenkins
21.How to restrict jenkins job to execute on a particular node
22.How to setup multiple Java or Maven or Git versions in Jenkins server
23.How to set Environmental Variables in Jenkins
24.How to installupdateremove Plugins in Jenkins
25.How to execute ansible playbooks from Jenkins
26.How to pass variables to ansible playbooks from Jenkins job
27.Build id variable name
28.What is console output
29.What is build history
30.How to store credentials in Jenkins
31.How to deploy older versions of artifacts from Jenkins job
32.Name diffrent Phases in Maven and its purpose
33.How to restart Jenkins from browser
34.How to startstoprestart Jenkins from command line
35.What is the location of workspace of jobs in Jenkins server
36.Benefits of using Nodes in Jenkins
37.How to execute Bash script from Jenkins job
38.Have you configured Jenkins’s job If yes, Tell me the process
39.What is continuous integration why we need it
40.How your CI & CD pipelines is are configured.
41.Have you worked on maven
42.How many slaves are there in ur Jenkins’s. How many executable are in each slave
43.Where you can store the build zip file(artifact). And how you deploy this to your environments
44.How to roll back the project from current version to previous versions
45.What plugins are u used in your project
46.How to write custom scripts in Maven
47.How to setup jenkins server and nodes using ec2 instances
48.how to deploy application by using git and Jenkins
49.For java app what are the best tools which is used for CI and CD tools.-
50.What problem CI solves, advantage of CI.
Maven and Ant
51.What is maven from where we get the pom.xml for the jobs.—
52.Maven is a build tool.
53.mvn archetypegenerate
54.what is pom.xml file
55.Maven and ant difference and what are the different scenario where it is used----
56.Difference between Ant and Maven. 
Ant and Maven both are build tools provided by Apache. The main purpose of these technologies is to ease the build process of a project. Ant doesn't has formal conventions, so we need to provide information of the project structure in build.xml file.
57.what is ant and from where we get the build.xml for the jobs.---
58.how pom.xml will read the variables which we use in the jenkin like version.----
By invoking maven
59.what is dependency in pom.xml---
POM inheritance
60.Invoke maven task is there in post build option.
Jenkins
1.are we in admin part of jenkins like installation of jenkins ---- yes
2.different ways to install a plugin's in jenkins - using manage plugins.----
3.how you created jobs in jenkins other than the GUI like new item option.. other option is job dsl. ---- using Jenkins API
4.Why jenkins is required if we can do the same thing with script like automatic. - Continous Integration and its plugin feature.
5.How many jobs are there in jenkins (for eg – ant , maven) - ant is default Maven you have to install, , Gradle.----
steps for the installation of jenkins tomcat server ( for tomcat server install command is different ) - see our copy.yml.
yum install Jenkins will run on which server  - Master server.
how do you do a deployemnt. - using shell scripts
are you doing the deployment in an application server - yes.
What is sonar qube and How to Integrate sonar qube with jenkins - code metrics.
Main reason of using jenkins - CI.
Commands to start jenkin manually  through command prompts like how to up the server  - service jenkins start.
How to Safe restart the jenkins - Restart when no jobs are running.
How to create a backup in jenkins, what is the plug in name complete process. From which directory it will take the back up ( jenkin_home) directory. - Backup Plugin.
Step to setup a jenkins and how to create a new job - New item- Frees style.
How to deploy a Custom build in jenkins - usinfg build tools such as ant and maven.
Where we store the artifacts which gets generated from jenkins -  local and nexus .
How to bypass the github like directly using the code and put it in jenkins--- t
Jenkins used a entriprised or a open source u used - ---open source.
Different Pluging used in jenkins ---build pipeline, Backup, git .